PROJECT
    A "language" to define text oriented data entry screens similar to COBOL.
It will be built with VB.NET using the Dotnet 10.0 SDK that is already installed
on this system and the Terminal.GUI library available online through references.

    It must run on Windows, Linux, and MacOS in console mode.

    The code cannot be over-engineered.  It must be simple, easy to read and
efficient.  We will not be running ourselves in circles debugging code that
is overly complicated.

LANGUAGE SPECIFICATIONS

While it will be similar to COBOL, it will not adhere to the strict formatting
of COBOL.  It will have sections:

DATA-SECTION: which will define the dataset filename and it's characteristics including
logical record length.  
Within the data section will be a RECORD indicator that will define the individual fields
in records.  Those fields will need to be referenced within the data entry screen as variables
for validation and potentially calculation purposes
FILE would be the full pathname of the output file.
APPEND means add to the end of an existing data file if it exists.  otherwise create it
NOAPPEND would mean that we're going to overwrite all existing data. (delete and create)
LRECL is the logical record length
LEND is how line endings should be written to the output file
    CRLF = Carriage Return/Line Feed combination
    LF = Line Feed
    CR = Carriage Return
    NONE = continuous stream

eg:
DATA-SECTION
    FILE output.dat APPEND LRECL=80 LEND=CRLF
RECORD CUST
    CNAME START=1 LEN=30
    FORMAT=X30.
    CADDR1 LEN=30
    FORMAT=X30.
    CADDR2 LEN=30
    FORMAT=X30.
    CCITY LEN=20
    FORMAT=X20.
    CSTATE LEN=2
    FORMAT=UU.
    CZIP LEN=5
    FORMAT=99999.
    CPHONE LEN=13
    FORMAT=999\-999\-9999.

Format characters initially are X=alphanumeric, U is upper case, L is lower case, 9 is digit including zeros.
the \ states the next character is a non-entry literal, but must be stored as data.  to insert a \ character into
the data it will be defined as \\.
Other formatting specifications may be added that make sense including ZZZZZ9.99 for zero fill.  When storing data
in the file, numbers should be right adjusted, while text is left adjusted.  If Z is not specified the padding will
be spaces. ex 9999 would produce '  15' but ZZZZ would produce '0015' (without the single quotes).

Validation functions can return True, False or a data result.  True would be "accept the data as is", False would be 
'deny the data, and re-enter", a data result would be massaged data that is to be returned to the field as if it were
entered.

VERY limited coding and reading of variables should be allowed for this validation.  AI has discretion in this 
endeavor.  COBOL-like language contructs are preferred.

the SCREEN-SECTION would behave much like the COBOL SCREEN-SECTION to define data entry.  Default 'hot keys' such as
Page Up, Page Down (for multiple screen forms), F3 to cancel the form, and the Right Control key for "Save" the form 
should be automatically defined and not be specified in the code.  Normal character editting functions must be implemented
such as Insert, backspace, delete, home, and end etc.

"INTO <record>.<varable>" is how data will be pushed to the current record before storage. Eg: INTO CUST.CNAME.
The screen specification should support VALIDATE WITH <function>. When the user attempts to store the form; 
the validate function should be called with the field data as it's only parameter; receiving back the result as True, False or data to
be replaced.  True is accepted, False is 'dont change the data, but make the user fix it.' and a data return would simply replace
the field data on the screen with the return value.


Users should be able to navigate the records in the datafile using a keystroke (possibly Shift Page-Up, Shift-Page Down, Shift-Home (first rec)
and Shift-End (last rec) in order to edit existing data if necessary.

When the form definition is completed, this program should output a standard C program, and compile it into an executable suitable
for the architecture in question.

Additional capabilities, suggestions and questions should be asked and clarified prior to creating code.





    


